# cs9765218<br>Assignment 2 - Scene Building, Camera, Textures, and Lighting - Due <br>Mar   17,   2025   11:59   PM<br>o   Spring   2025   CSC   305 A01 A02 X<br>This   assignment tests your   understanding   of   hierarchical transformations, the   camera, textures,   rasterization,   and   lighting   in the   real-time   graphics   pipeline.<br>This   assignment   is   purposefully open-ended, you   are   meant to   be   creative.<br>See   past   examples   at the   end   of this text,   and   clarifications   in the   rubric   and   notes.<br>Write   a   program   in JavaScript/WebGL that   draws   an   animated   scene with the      requirements   given   below. Template   code   is   provided to   handle   many of the               aspects   necessary to   get   basic   objects   rendered with textures   and   moving   in   a   scene.   Use the template   code found on   the   course webpage.<br>There are important notes about the template code regarding textures below! You will very likely have to address these, so make sure to read them carefully. There is a lot of information here, it is for your benefit. Make sure you read the assignment text from beginning to end. If you have questions consult this assignment text first. <br>In Lab 5 and 7 we modify the assignment basecode to support textures in multiple ways. I strongly suggest using either Lab 5 (with help from Lab 7 later if you need it) as your starting point! Lab 5 is in the Syllabus, Lab 7 will be later. Note you will find that you can not complete all components immediately. There are two key labs upcoming 5 and 6 (with additional hints in 7 for those who need additional insights near the due date of the assignment), and several lectures, rasterization, textures, and lighting that are needed to complete this assignment. <br>Marking Scheme <br>Total Marks: 47<br>1. [4 Marks] At   least   one   hierarchical   object   of   at   least   three   levels   in   the   hierarchy    (e.g.   human   arm   body   -   >   shoulder   -   >   elbow   ...) where joint motion   clearly shows the   interaction   between   levels. A good   example of this   is the   legs   in A1,   note that   legs   in A2 will   not   count   (you   can   not   simply   use the   legs to   fulfill   this   requirement). <br>2. [4 Marks] 360-degree   camera   fly   around   using lookAt() and setMV() to       move the   camera   in   a   circle while   focusing   on   a   point that the   camera   is circling. This   can   be   a   single   fly around   or can   be   a   part   of a   composed   scene   or   can   be   a   loop.<br>3. [4 Marks] Connection to   real-time. You   should   make   sure that your<br>scene   runs   in   real-time   on   fast   enough   machines.   Real-time   means that   one   simulated   second   corresponds   roughly to   one   real   second.<br>4. [6 Marks] Make   use   of at   least   two   textures   either   procedural   or<br>mapped. You   must   map   them   to   a(n)   object(s)   in   a   meaningful way.<br>Using the textures from the   Lab   modified   assignment   base   code   does   not   count toward the two.   Simply   placing   a texture   on   a   default   object         using the   default   object   coordinates   does   not   count.   Using textures   as         in the   lab   code with   no   meaningful   or   non-trivial   development   does   not   count.<br>5. [5 Marks] Convert the ADS   shader   in the   assignment   base   code from   a   vertex   shader to   a fragment   s   hader. You   need to   compute the   lighting         equation   per fragment.<br>6. [2 Marks] Convert the   Phong to   Blinn-Phong   in the   new fragment   shader created   in   step   3.<br>7. [5 Marks] At   least   one   shader effect   designed from   scratch to   perform         a   clearly visible   novel   effect   (novel w.r.t   basecode   and   labs). This   can   be   directly   incorporated   in the   given   shader   basecode   or added to the<br>HTML file,   loaded,   and   compiled   as   an   additional   shader   program   make   use   of.   Each   line   of your shader code   must   be   commented   clearly explaining   exactly what the following   line   does   and why. You   must clearly   identify the   purpose   and   effect the   shader   produces   in the submitted   README.   Note that   some   really cool   effects   require very little   code.   Note that your effect   can   use   a texture   and   thus   may   count   as   part   of your   novel texture   count   above   (you   need to   document this in your   readme)! Think   about   how   lighting works,   how surfaces work, and   how your favourite,   games,   movies,   and   comics   look. <br>Past examples: Create a spotlight rather than a directional light, cel-shading, swirl effect, water caustics, blur, glow, edge highlighting, x-ray, CRT (retro gaming TV), etc. <br>Please be careful here, it is very tempting to pul effects from Shadertoy, YouTube gurus, or some other s hader resource. You need to complete this item yourself! You are better off working out and coding a simple one-line effect that is we l explained than copying someone else 's effect (one can get you fu l marks, and the other can lead to an academic integrity case). <br>8. [5 Marks] Complexity:   scene   setup   and   design,   movement   of animated   elements,   and   programming.<br>9. [5 Marks] Creativity:   storytelling,   scene   design,   object   appearance   and   other artistic   elements.<br>10. [5 Marks] Quality:    Attention   to   detail,   modelling   quality,   rendering   quality,   motion   control.<br>11. [2 Marks] Programming   style.<br>12. [-2 Marks if not] Make   and   submit   a   movie   of your complete   scene. The   movie   should   be the   resolution   of your canvas,   and   in   a   standard file format/codec   such   as   mp4.   Include   a   cover   image   (png   or jpg)   from your   movie. You   may   use   any screen   capture   program that   is   available   (e.g.   ShareX).   Some   additional   info   below. <br>13. [-4 Marks if not] Provide   a   readme.txt that   describes what you   have   done, what you   have   omitted,   and   any other   information that will   help   the   grader evaluate your work,   including what   is   stated   below.<br>Requirements/Policies <br>Collaboration <br>None.<br>Original Work <br>The   assignment   must   be   done from   scratch. Apart from the template   provided   and   labs, you   should   not   use   code   from   any other source,   including the previous   offering   of the   class.<br>Note there   are   many shader sources   on the   internet.   Please   develop your   own   first! You   can   seek   inspiration   but do not use   others’   code.<br>Zero Mark <br>If the   code   does   not   run,   no   objects   appear   in the window,   or only   the   template   code   is   running   properly,   no   partial   marks will   be   given.<br>Clarifications <br>· Note that   creativity and   complexity   are   both   important   for   this<br>assignment,   but   are   in   many ways   subjective. The   mark will   be   applied objectively   in   a way that   reflects whether you've   done   something   non-         trivial w.r.t. the   given   code. We   are   not   subjectively judging your artistic   ability. <br>· Make   sure you   rotate the   hierarchical   elements   from   [1]   around the<br>correct   point,   i.e. where they touch the   parent   body   parts, 代 写CSC 305 Spring 2025 Assignment 2 - Scene Building, Camera, Textures, and LightingJava
程序  so   bodies   do   not   appear to   break   apart.<br>· Start your code   in   main.js:render()   and   feel   free to write   additional   functions<br>· You   must   do the   assignment   from   scratch.   If you   use   existing   code   (e.g.         A1,   Lab5,   Lab   7) then you   must   state that   clearly   in your   readme.txt file.   You   are   not   allowed to   use   any   piece   of   code   from   any other source.<br>Using   any   piece   of code from   any source   (including   previous   offerings   of the   course, the web   etc) without   attribution will   be   considered plagiarism.<br>· You can use   libraries   as   stated   below. You will   not   get   credit   for the<br>code you   have   not written,   however,   it   might   help with the visual complexity of your scene.   For example,   if you   use   an   existing   3D   model   for   required   element   1, then you will   not   get   credit   for   it.   See   below for   more   details. <br>Project Submission Instructions <br>1.   Make   a   backup   copy of your   project folder first to   avoid   accidentally   deleting your work.<br>2.   Rename   the   parent   project   folder to   include your   name<br>3.   Remove   any   unnecessary files from the   assignment. You   need to   submit   all   files   required to   run your assignment   and   nothing   more.<br>4. Archive the   project folder   in   a   zip   folder   and   call   it   csc305_assignment_2.zip.<br>5. Test   the   archive<br>a.   Unzip the   archive   in   a   different   location.<br>b.   Make   sure   everything works   as   expected.<br>6.   Submit the   zip file   on   brightspaces.We want to   be   able to   open your zip   file,   run,   and   see   your   project   right   away.   Also,   note that you   can   add   as   many files   as you want to   the   project   as   well   as   modify any settings that you   need to   (see   below).   However,   it   would   be   useful   if you   stated   unusual   settings   and   additional files   in the   readme.txt.<br>Movie Submission Instructions <br>1. There   are   lots   of screen   capture   software that   simplify screen<br>recording.   On Windows, ShareX is very good.<br>2.   Call your   movie file   _   _movie.   [mpg,mp4],   replacing      and    with your first   name   and   last   name.<br>3.   Call your   image file   _   _image.jpg.<br>4. Zip the two files   in   an   archive   called   _   _bundle.zip.<br>5.   Submit the   file   on   brightspaces.<br>Security Issues with Textures If the textures   do   not work,   check the   console   for   an   error   message   related   to   “Cross-origin   image”.    To   use textures   in WebGL we   have to   bypass   a   security      issue that   is   present with   most   browsers.<br>The   easiest way to   handle this   is with the   python HTTP server   approach   we discussed   in   Lab. This   is   how we will   mark your assignment. <br>1.   Open   explorer/file   manager and   navigate to the   code   folder. <br>2.   Now shift-click   in the file   list   and   open   a   command   prompt   or powershell   here <br>1. Alternatively, you   can   open   a   command   prompt   or   power shell from the windows   menus   and then   use   cd   [folder] to   navigate   to   the   correct folder.<br>3.   Now   run the   following:<br>python   -m http.server   8080 <br>4.   Now you   should   be   able to   open   a   browser and type<br>localhost:8080<br>In   the   URL   bar<br>5. You’ll   see your files   being   hosted   on   a   simple   local   server, you   can   now   click your   html   file.<br>FAQ <br>1. Are   there   any size   limitations to the   project?   i.e.   number   of   classes,   project   size,   memory,   number of textures, texture   resolution   etc?<br>A: In terms   of texture   resolution,   number of textures   etc,   there   are:<br>a.   Hardware   and   software   limitations. There   is   a   maximum   number   of textures you   can   have   active   at the   same time,   and   there   is   a maximum   size for   textures.<br>b.   Practical   limitations.   Brightspace   has   a   1gb   limit   on what you   can   upload   and   a recommended 40mb maximum. You   also want your   project   to   run   in   real-time.<br>2. What   should   be the   duration   of the   movie?<br>A: However   long to   capture   it   generally,   if   it   loops you   may want to<br>capture two   or three   loops.   Often these   are   between   20-60   seconds.<br>3. Can we   use   images   from   the web?<br>A: As   long   as the   images   are   free   for   public   use,   sure.   Do   not   use   assets   that   are   copyrighted.   Note that the filters   on   google   images   are   rarely            correct w.r.t   usage   rights.   Check   out   resources   like:<br>a. OpenGameArt<br>https:/opengameart.org/ <br>b. Wiki   Commons<br>https:/commons.w ikimedia.org/w iki/Mai n_ Page <br>c.   PARIS   MUSÉES<br>https:/www.parismuseescollections.paris.fr/en <br>d. Smithsonian   Open Access<br>https:/www.si.edu/OpenAccess <br>4. Can we   use   external   libraries?<br>A: As   long   as   they   (a)   are   free   for   public   use,   (b)   do   not   make   the required   elements   unfairly easier for you   (do   not   use   an   engine, tool,   package,   module,   or any   resource that   solves   a   required   element   for      you),    and   (c) the TA   can   run your   project,   you   can   use   additional libraries.   However,   if the TA cannot   run your   program   because   of missing   dependencies   etc. you will   have   a   problem.   Generally, that means they   need to   be freely   available   and you   need   to   submit   the complete   assignment.   No   setup   or downloading   on   our   part   should   be   required   to   get   it   to   run. <br>5. Can   we   use   audio?<br>A: You   can,   however,   3)   and 4)   also   apply   here.<br>6.   How ambitious   can we   be?<br>A: I   encourage you to take this   opportunity   and   explore   your<br>programming   abilities   and your creative   interests.   However,   I   advise you   not to   aim too   high,   unless you   are   confident   about what you   are doing.    Above   all,   FIRST   make   sure that you   have   covered the   required   elements   of the   assignment. THEN,   add   complexity   incrementally   in   a      way that   does   not   break your   base   of working   elements. <br>Hints <br>· Use the timestamp   or   dt variables   to   synchronize your   animation   elements.<br>· Use   setColor(r,g,b) to   set   the   desired   colours.<br>· For the   motions, you   may want   to   use   functions   such   as<br>1. x(timestamp)   = A*   Math.cos(w*timestamp+h)<br>Where timestamp   is   real-time, A is   amplitude,   Math.cos   is   cosine function, w   is the   angular frequency,   h   is   the   phase<br>1. x(t   +   dt)   =   x(t)   +   x'(t)dt<br>Next   position   in   time   ( x(t   +   dt)   )   is just   the   current   position   (   x(t)   )plus   velocity   ( x'(t)   )   scaled   by   the   change   in   time   (dt).<br>。Wave functions<br>。Euler   integration   for   movement · Common   mistakes with   motion<br>1.   eye[0]   =   eye[0]*Math.cos(theta)   +   eye[2]*Math.Sin(theta)   ;<br>2.   eye[2]   =   -eye[0]*Math.sin(theta)   +   eye[2]*Math.cos(theta)   ; / incorrect use of the newly computed eye[0] instead of the original eye[0] <br>。Camera   Motion<br><br><br>加QQ：99515681  WX：codinghelp  Email: 99515681@qq.com
